Yii Golf League
===============

 

Welcome to Yii Golf League, a golf league management application.

 

Yii Golf League is a web application designed to organize golf leagues and
includes

-   Match, tournament, and seasons scheduling,

-   Registrations to competitions,

-   Competition planning and organisation (flights, start lists…)

-   Score entry and publication, including live leaderboard.

The application also has basic bloging system, and can associate photo galeries
to all kinds of objects and events.

 

Like all applications, Yii Golf League uses its own flexible approach to golf
leagues. The following paragraphs introduce things we talk about in this
application.

 

Competitions
------------

The heart of Yii Golf League is the organisation of competitions from initial
scheduling to final scoreboard display.

Competitions can be as simple as a single match or as complex as a season-long,
weekly contest.

There are three types of «  competitions » to organise your league:

1.  Matches

2.  Tournaments

3.  Seasons

Matches are the only competition that can be played by golfers. The two other
types of competitions are

 

### Competition Rules

 

Scoring
-------

Scoring can be done at different level, from global, match-based score, to
detailed hole-by-hole score and statistics.

 

 

Golf course and more
--------------------

 

 

Golfers
-------

 

Example of Use
--------------

Here would be an example of a common use of the application.

 

First, a league « manager » creates the « environment » for the competition.

He adds golfers with their handicap. Entering handicap is necessary if you use
the handicap system. Optionally, when adding a golfer to your league, you can
also add an web site account to allow him to log in to the application.

He adds the golf course, and at least one tee set from which golfer will play.
Again, you need to enter the tee set’s slope and index rating if you want to use
the handicap system. You may also add hole details such as hole par, length, and
handicap index. You must enter these details if you wish to enter score hole by
hole or print custom scorecards.

This completes the setup of your « environment » . You can now refer to these
golfers and golf courses in your competitions.

 

Second, you add your competition. If it is a simple, single match event, add a
Match. If your competition is more complex and involves weekly matches over the
course of the year, you will need to add a Season and a Tournament before you
can create your Match.

This complete the creation of the competition. Golfer can now register to the
competion.

 

If a golfer has an account on the web site, he can log in and get a calendar of
planned competitions. A golfer can then register to a competiton.

 

A league « starter » will be able to register those golfers who do not have
access to the web site.

When the registration period is terminated, the starter can proceed with the
building of the flights, assign tees to golfers according to their gender,
handicap, and other constraints. He terminates the preparation of the
competition with the publication of the flights and optionally, the printing of
the indivudual, custom scorecards for golfers.

 

The competition is now ready to be played.

 

Scores can be entered in many different ways.

Authorized golfers are able to access their online scorecard and enter their own
scores. If so planned, they can even enter their score live, while playing.

A league « scorer » will enter scores for golfers who cannot enter their own
scorecards.

When scores are being entered, a live leaderboard is available on the web site
and allow people to follow the competiton live.

When all scores have been entered and all scorecards approved, the score of the
match is published.

If this match was part of a larger, multi-match tournament, the tournament’
scores can be computed.

The tournament’s progress can be followed on live tournament scoreboards on the
golf league web site.

 

Finally, on the web site, managers can add pictures to played events, and add
simple blogging messages.

 

Now go. Play golf.
